Hi everyone. Today's Monday, May 11, and
this is the Moneyball Morning Report
charts by Trendpider, news and news flow
by Venzinger Pro, gamma flows by
menthroq, and forensic data by trade
wave. All right, so let's take a look at
the E- Mini S&P. Whoa, look at how far
up they moved that call wall. Oh my
goodness,
that is quite the move. 7500.
Put wall stays put at what do we got
going here?
7330.
Wow. Wow. Wow. Okay, so they are
expecting some kind of blowoff top.
Here's the thing. This is options
expiration week. And then we have Nvidia
earnings. So
we could stay in this space of what
everyone is doing. And you can read
this. Spot Gamma did a great analysis on
the week of what price action has done.
And literally they just like I said last
night they are just they traders are
coming in as long as it's holding a
floor they're going to jam calls in
first thing and then just keep jamming
the calls and force the dealers to move.
Now the dealers have
uh the wall all the way up here at 7500.
The zerod co-all is much more reasonable
at 7450. They might try to push the zero
DTE co-wall. This will be the wall they
will buy with enough force if we can get
up over this 30 minute candlestick from
Friday. And this is the problem. Notice
the traders all night. They literally
have been caught in this 330 box.
They tried to break back up first thing.
Could not try to break down. Could not.
So they stayed and gathered steam.
Right. So this is the inventory build.
Then they got into the low of the
closing 30-minute candlestick. That's
also the anchored VWAP. That number is
7,40011. If you remember from last
night's uh
market kickoff, we have that 7411
sitting
uh right up there. That was our target,
right? That was the first target. The
second target was the fill of the gap.
So, I got both of those. After that,
nothing. No more trades. Now, here we
are
sitting at the base of the anchored
VWAP, an upward 50, an upward VWAP for
the overnight with the pivot below us
momentum in decline. What is that
telling us? Well, it's telling us that
there's absolutely a force there. So,
the question is, is the mean reversion?
I don't want that. Is the mean reversion
something that is taking us to say
100 simple moving average
uh a 50 on the hour? I have no idea.
Right? We can see from the volume
profile that the highest amount of
volume is currently piling here. It's
also on the hourly profile. We also
would see value area high 7425, value
area low 7350.
So, it could be some sort of mean
reversion that puts us into this edge.
It could be a return into
the wider formation down here while we
wait for Nvidia or the next ch to drop.
I do not know. But what I do see is the
following. We cannot breach
this flag area where they when I say
flag I mean they planted the flag and
said this is ours right and so far the
sellers are winning in the flag planting
because we cannot get out of the box to
the north the moment we get out to the
box do not short this unless you're
scalping. If you're scalping okay you
can go in, you can get out a couple of
points great. Don't hang on here because
look at what they've been doing when
they jam
the box and they get out. It's all she
wrote to the north, right? So, just be
careful. All right. Don't don't short it
up there. Levels below 7377.
That would be a great area to say, "Wow,
wouldn't it be great to buy that?" But
dips or buys, right? The pivot currently
7,395.
Upward flow 7,425
to 7,450.
We could stay fairly rangebound today.
Nothing dramatic. All right, here we go.
And cute.
Same thing, right? A little bit
stronger. It got out of the box.
went to the prior high
and then rejected. So the line in the
sand today for the Q's appear to be 29,
above that. You know how these guys do,
right? They go up 30, 40 points, 50
points and then reject. You got to be
careful here. But scalping is also
easily done here. Well, not easily, but
you can get it done definitely. Let's
take a look at trend 50 moving up VWAP
flat as a pancake. They're trying to
break to the north again. If they break
to the north again, they've got between
20 and 70 points. 20 and 50 points,
excuse me, to the upside.
Call not that far away. 29,500.
Put wall 28,850.
The zero DTE put wall is 29,000.
The zero DTE call wall must be covered
up underneath one of these. So it also
could be 29,500.
I can't even tell you how long in the
tooth some of these NQ things are. You
know, a lot of people listen, we've been
in a power trend, IBD's power trend from
from William O'Neal. We've been in a
power trend for five, six days,
something like that, right?
You don't know what a power trend is,
the best guy to listen to is Webbby
Randle Rambles on uh W.
If you don't like a gentle, kind
personality
that is he's very his his heart and he's
very gentle, right? Um, if you don't
like that kind of personality, you're
not going to like him. But if you do,
he's amazing. Okay? He's great. I like
people on both sides. I like the rough
and tumble. I like the very gentle. I
just It's what they're giving me. I can
look past the how. So, he's got some
great stuff on Power Trend. You should
you should watch it. But, it talks about
how long a cycle can run in this
particular uh type of environment. And
obviously, moving the call walls up, all
that stuff. Listen, a lot of people are
warning about a drop. They are, but it's
going to be reflexive. Why? Because
there's so much hedging underneath. The
the problem is going to be when the wave
is so big, the reflexive hedge collapses
and that can happen. All right? So, we
want to be super careful. All right. So,
let's talk about this breakout.
Upper edges as I mentioned 29,500.
Oh, what is this? Oh, pivot 29,634.
And then the max daily is 29,720.
Again, these are from menth.
What is this cute little guy here? He
must be Quinn. Oh, that's sidekick. All
right. Sitting on top of Q. Okay, so now
what do we think? Look at the drift in
momentum here, right? So, this is
telling us that the anchor to the upside
could easily collapse. When momentum is
not doing the same thing as trend,
upward motion has a lifespan on it,
unless this flips. Okay. So, and it's
barely positive. Upward flow dips or
buys 50 29,221.
The anchored VWAP feels like the move.
I'm gonna clone this so we can do a
measured move down.
Yeah, it looks like the anchored VWAP is
rounding about where they'll get to
29,164.
You know the levels to look at if it
breaks down. You want to watch the pivot
and then the zero DTE
um put wall and then the put wall, the
big put wall. All right, let's take a
look at the YM.
Okay. So, does the YM lead or follow? I
Well, it's definitely not following
because it's definitely fading, right?
We've had two days of fade. The bounces
are the sell zones. This looks textbook.
I drew this the last time we were
talking together. And so, look at the
Fibonacci, right? I drew this early on
this morning. Fibonacci takes it up to
the top. 49,500
fades the moving average. Now you might
go and Marie, you said it would follow
that moving average. Yes. Is it
following the moving average? It is.
Does that mean you short the moving
average? No. You short the levels.
The moving average just tells you
directionally what's likely to happen if
you take a decision at the level. So,
for instance, unless you're scalping,
if you take the break, if you say, "Hey,
this is a steep downward moving average.
I'm going to go long,
you're going to have a lot of
candlesticks that are going to try and
stop you out." And eventually,
it will hold trend. Now, this took this
was a savage break. This was this was
textbook volume, right? Look at where it
stopped. Remember,
volume goes, excuse me, price goes to
where the volume is.
Look at where this thing stopped.
The trending candlestick formation up
here where the highest volume was
sitting for the prior day. Now, the
highest volume for the prior day is this
box.
Trend is flattening out.
We've come in and tested it. It's broken
down.
We broke the low. Came into the region.
Here's our 330 close. This candle box,
same thing. We're caught inside of this
range.
So, you know where to go. If it breaks
above this 330 close at 49,710,
it's going to move up to the pivot
49,756
and then 49,861
probably. That's my that's my thought.
Look at how nicely this Fibonacci has
held. It broke down here, held the low,
now it's moving back up into the box.
The YM is actually a beautiful
instrument to trade. It really is,
especially if you're newer. You can
still make a ton of money, but the risk
ends up being pretty small. And if you
start with a micro to get the rhythm and
then go to the regular one, it could be
quite beautiful. All right, micro
Bitcoin
caught in. Whoa, look at that rejection.
Holy cow, man. This thing is sideways.
So, here's the thing. I tried to short
this top. I left my stop a little bit
too tight. I got stopped out and I never
looked at it again. But it was a very
nice short, right? What's the moral of
the story? Um, you're going to get where
you put your stops wrong sometimes. Uh,
even machines do. They just happen to
come back and get right back in if the
setup is the same. Okay. So, your risk
is the most important thing. And because
of that, your sizing is also important.
sizing develop on risk. You got to be
careful with that. Okay? So, you can't
come in and go, "This is definitely
breaking down." And
lever up and blow your account. Just
don't do that. A lot of us do that and
we go, "Well, this doesn't work. I'll
just reset my combine or reset my
account." You know, how you going to
learn like that? You can't. You can't
reset when it's real money. Don't reset
when it's fake money. Just carve
yourself out and fix the problem and
don't leave yourself overly exposed. If
you're right and it blows away from you,
guess what? You're going to have another
opportunity. If it's wrong and you get
out in time, great. You still have
opportunity. So, pay attention. Okay.
All right. Upward flow
still. So, dips or buys. Where would I
love to see the dip down here at 80,000?
81,000 doesn't look bad for long. The
200 is flat, which is kind of crummy,
but that's because of this down here and
this up here. Price action below the
200, price action above the 200. Could
you take a trade at 81,280
where it is right now? Yes. But you got
a VWAP up here that's downward sloping
and so it could give you some trouble.
My thought is wait, let it let these two
moving averages, let the 50 and the 200
come together.
Let the VWAP come in to that number and
then wait. And when it gets above all of
them at the same time or below all of
them at the same time, you've got
yourself a great strike point. For now,
the range of Bitcoin looks be 79,500
all the way up to 83 82,600.
Let's look at oil.
Well, last night we broke out, moved to
100 into the call wall, and now we are
back. We've got a downward 200 and
upward 50, right? So,
the trend underneath still holding,
but we've broken this line. So, I'm
going to move it.
Where is the highest volume candle?
Friday was very thin. Not a lot of news.
So,
we're still trapped
in the candlestick governing the range.
It's still Thursday. All right, there's
the clone of Thursday below. It holds
the 50%. Let's clone it for the above.
Catches it almost right on the top. So,
this candle is still the formations tell
us this candlestick on Thursday is still
Oops, excuse me.
What time is that? 1:00. That's the
closing candle, right? So, that's
holding it. What do we have here? Um,
could you try along here? Yes, you
could. But this is the candlestick in
force and we've already broken in here.
So, my thought is you could try long,
but it could be a look below and go,
meaning here is the look below and fail,
but it's not breaching the VWAP. So if
we see it lose,
I would say the close of that dominant
candle which is 97. This is a short to
the bottom of that candle box which is
right near the pivot. That's 9550. The
anchored VWAP is $9524.
Very mechanical, very mechanical flows.
You just have to find out, you just have
to find a mechanic and then follow it,
right? Everything has a rhythm.
Everything has a rhythm. If a human
touches it, we're going to try and force
order on it. Sadly,
we don't really know the right way to do
that. And so, we're going to push things
around until they break, right? My
youngest son had a terrible habit of
that. I mean, anything we would buy him,
20 minutes later, it was absolutely
destroyed. He would go, he's coming back
from Japan today and I I couldn't remind
him of that.
Begged for this pirate ship and it was
expensive.
I mean, he had it for 30 minutes and it
was in pieces. I was like, "Oh my
goodness, this boy, he is a wrecking
fruit." All right, so here we go. And
for those of us that have boys, we we
know that this this happens because
they're little savages, but
he was a little bit over the top. It was
hilarious. Okay, so off of that memory
road trip back to life. Here we are um
with gold. Gold faded very nicely. Look
at where it faded. The 200. Now notice
the two just because it gets to that
moving average doesn't mean hey I'm
going to go long. You have to watch how
the traders are behaving. But the
overall formation says listen
they're either going to break down and
then move back up or break down and stay
down. But if the trend is sharply up and
your momentum is positive,
it is very likely to resume the upward
trend. So what are we seeing? This is
actually sitting down here at the gamma
line of one day min, which is crazy. But
that's 4675. It needs to hold that edge,
right? Until it does, it's still
sideways. But look at the VWAP. The VWAP
is down. It tells you that people who've
gone long are losing money. That's what
that line is actually saying. And so the
people that are going short are in
charge. If they short the edge of that
VWAP as the momentum is moving up, it
could catch them on the wrong side. My
thought is this is upward flow. So, the
expectation is that the dip is a buy,
especially if it's a higher low, takes
us back into 4700.
The biggest candle volume,
holy smokes, is all the way up here for
the prior day.
That is a big candle. Let's see the
range.
Whoops.
Almost almost to the box, right? 4650.
That is pretty good, friends.
4652 is the bottom of that box. They did
a front running of price action at the
base of that location. The why might be
very interesting, but I don't know the
answer. I I do not know the answer, but
that certainly is the box to watch.
Where is resistance currently?
It actually is here at 4688.
Value area low 4695.
Remember, if the momentum shifts, we're
going to walk through these box
formations.
Look at where the ZDTE pull wall is.
476.
The regular port wall all the way down
here at 4500.
and the call wall up here at 4816. You
see the widening of that? This is just
an absolute mosh pit. But they have to
get back up over 4687
or this is going to run down into the
gamma wall at 469.
Right? I still believe that that gold is
in a downtrend. Um especially after what
happened on Friday. Now, on Thursday, I
actually thought, wo, this thing could
really break out. But Friday said, "No,
no, not a choice." And that is what
we're staring down right there. Bounces
or sell zones. Now, could you take the
bounce? Yeah, fill the gap, move up. You
could make a ton of money. It would just
be not on this time frame. You might
want to try Yeah, that one doesn't even
work. However,
if you break through the 50 and you head
up here, you could see the long
formation. But this steepness is going
to have to work itself out. It's going
to work itself out in something that
looks like this, right? So, you want to
be pretty careful. All right. Finally,
let's take a look at Spy as she has um
spent way too much time talking.
Let's go to 30. spy
caught in a sideways pressure event.
could be um
could be the formation. 736 for the
base. 737 738
on the high. It's in compression. We're
holding the pivot which is 73660
and
the closing candle formation. We're
sitting right in the middle of it.
That is going to be our breach. If we
get above it, we're in good shape. 738.
And if we get below it, right into the
50. So 735 for now looks like nice
frontline support right at the 50 and
then the upward trajectory takes us into
738 call 740
and then 1 day max 745.
The markets are still grinding to the
north folks but there is um
the whole market is in a GameStop moment
if that makes any sense to you. So, we
just have to be very careful, especially
if you're looking at your other
investments. You want to be super
careful. All right. Okay, everybody,
take care. I'll see you on the streams.